# .NET Flavors

## .NET Framework
 Microsoft's .NET Framework is a development platform that includes a Common
 Language Runtime (CLR) that manages the execution of code, and provides a
 rich library of classes to build applications.

 Practically speaking, .NET Framework is Windows-only, and a legacy platform.

## Mono and Xamarin
 Third parties developed a .NET implementation named the Mono project.
 Mono is cross-platform, but it fell well behind the official implementation
 of .NET Framework. It has found a niche as the foundation of the `Xamarin`
 mobile platform.

## .NET Core
 While rewriting .NET to be truly cross-platform, Microsoft has taken the
 opportunity to refactor .NET to remove major parts that are no longer
 considered core.

This new product is branded as .NET Core, which includes a cross-platform
implementation of the CLR known as `CoreCLR`, and a streamlined library of
classes known as `CoreFX`.

.NET Core is much smaller than the current version of .NET Framework because a
lot has been removed.

For example, Windows Forms and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) can be
used to build graphical user interface (GUI) applications, but they are
tightly bound to Windows, so they have been removed from .NET Core. The latest
technology used to build Windows apps is the `Universal Windows Platform` (UWP),
and UWP is built on a custom version of .NET Core.

ASP.NET Web Forms and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) are old web
application and service technologies that fewer developers choose to use for
new development projects today, so they have also been removed from .NET Core.
Instead, developers prefer to use ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Web API. These two
technologies have been refactored and combined into a new product that runs on
.NET Core named `ASP.NET Core`.

The Entity Framework (EF) 6.x is an object-relational mapping technology to
work with data stored in relational databases such as Oracle and Microsoft SQL
Server. It has gained baggage over the years, so the cross-platform version
has been slimmed down and named `Entity Framework Core`.

Some common but old data types in .NET Framework have been removed from .NET
Core, such as  HashTable and ArrayList in System.Collections.

Some data types in .NET that are included with both .NET Framework and .NET
Core have been simplified by removing some members. For example, in .NET
Framework, the File class has both a Close and Dispose method, and either can
be used to release the file resources. In .NET Core, there is only the Dispose
method. This reduces the memory footprint of the assembly and simplifies the
API you must learn.

As well as removing large pieces from .NET Framework to make .NET Core,
Microsoft has componentized .NET Core into NuGet packages: small chunks of
functionality that can be deployed independently.

## .NET Standard
The situation with .NET today is that there are three forked .NET platforms,
all controlled by Microsoft:

* .NET Framework
* Xamarin
* .NET Core

Each have different strengths and weaknesses because they are designed for
different scenarios. This has led to the problem that a developer must learn
three platforms, each with annoying quirks and limitations.

So, Microsoft is working on defining .NET Standard 2.0: a set of APIs that all
.NET platforms must implement.

VS > New Project > .NET Standard > Class Library
$ dotnet new classlib

helpful tools:
Compatibility Shims package
.NET Portability Analyzer (VS)
dotnet-apiport (Linux)

## .NET Native
Another .NET initiative is .NET Native. This compiles C# code to native CPU
instructions `ahead-of-time` (AoT) rather than using the CLR to compile
intermediate language (IL) code `just-in-time` (JIT) to native code later.

.NET Native improves execution speed and reduces the memory footprint for
applications.




